Blog posts for roadmap 2024 H1! (#33192)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_posts/2024-06-11-roadmap-2024h1.markdown

During our [State of the Open Home livestream](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oa__fLArsFk&amp;t=7649s) in April, we presented our roadmaps for Home Assistant, ESPHome, open protocols, and Home Assistant Cloud. If you’re not sure what a roadmap is, or why we aren’t just listing features and dates - please read our intro to [Home Assistant Roadmaps](/blog/2024/06/11/roadmap-introduction).

There has already been a lot of great discussion about these roadmaps in the community, and we would really like to encourage you to give your thoughts in the comments of this blog - as they will inform [how the roadmap evolves over time](/blog/2024/06/11/roadmap-introduction/#how-are-roadmaps-made).

You can skip straight to the sections you’re most interested here:
* [Home Assistant: “A Home-Approved Smart Home”](#home-assistant-a-home-approved-smart-home)
* [Home Assistant Cloud: “Peace of Mind”](#home-assistant-cloud-peace-of-mind)
* [Open standards: “Certified Quality”](#open-standards-certified-quality)

~ Madelena

<!--more-->

## Home Assistant: “A Home-Approved Smart Home”

> <p><img src='/images/blog/2024-06-roadmap-2024h1/ha-roadmap-2024h1.png' class='no-shadow' /></p>

Reviewer: The bot is right here, we should provide alt tags

description: "Our first detailed roadmap outlining the direction of the continued development of the Home Assistant project"
date: 2024-06-11 00:00:01
date_formatted: "June 11, 2024"
author: Madelena Mak
comments: true
categories: Announcements Roadmap
og_image: /images/blog/2024-06-roadmap-2024h1/banner.png
---

<p><img src='/images/blog/2024-06-roadmap-2024h1/banner.png' class='no-shadow' alt='Banner for Roadmap 2024 H1'/></p>

During our [State of the Open Home livestream](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oa__fLArsFk&amp;t=7649s) in April, we presented our roadmaps for Home Assistant, ESPHome, open protocols, and Home Assistant Cloud. If you’re not sure what a roadmap is, or why we aren’t just listing features and dates - please read our intro to [Home Assistant Roadmaps](/blog/2024/06/11/roadmap-introduction).

There has already been a lot of great discussion about these roadmaps in the community, and we would really like to encourage you to give your thoughts in the comments of this blog - as they will inform [how the roadmap evolves over time](/blog/2024/06/11/roadmap-introduction/#how-are-roadmaps-made).

> You can skip straight to the sections you’re most interested here:
> * [Home Assistant: “A Home-Approved Smart Home”](#home-assistant-a-home-approved-smart-home)
> * [Home Assistant Cloud: “Peace of Mind”](#home-assistant-cloud-peace-of-mind)
> * [Open standards: “Certified Quality”](#open-standards-certified-quality)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can skip straight to the sections you’re most interested:

- [Home Assistant: “A Home-Approved Smart Home”](#home-assistant-a-home-approved-smart-home)
- [Home Assistant Cloud: “Peace of Mind”](#home-assistant-cloud-peace-of-mind)
- [Open standards: “Certified Quality”](#open-standards-certified-quality)
```

Therefore, in the roadmap ahead for Home Assistant, we propose that our contributor community and us, the core maintainers, should focus our efforts on making Home Assistant more home-approved.  This can be done by improving the touchpoints that all members of the household will interact with, such as automations, dashboards, and voice assistants, while maintaining the power and depth of the platform for our power users and admins. Our plan is divided into the following areas:

### Dashboards

We have been hard at work renovating our dashboards since last year. Moving forward, we are focused on making the dashboard user experience better for all users.

#### Current priority: Make customization of dashboards easy and intuitive

> With the new Sections view layout, better tile cards, and our incredibly well-received [drag and drop](/blog/2024/03/04/dashboard-chapter-1/) 🐉, we have recently begun our work into making customization of dashboards easy and intuitive. We aim to implement an intuitive and organized grid system for dashboards. We will need community contributions to update our current cards to fit the grid system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the new Sections view layout, better tile cards, and our incredibly well-received [drag and drop](/blog/2024/03/04/dashboard-chapter-1/) 🐉, we have recently begun our work on making dashboard customization easy and intuitive. We aim to implement an intuitive and organized grid system for dashboards. We will need community contributions to update our current cards to fit the grid system.
```

#### Next priority: Make default dashboards more useful and relevant

> Our current default dashboard gives our users two choices: Either list every entity the system is connected to, or start from scratch. With dashboard blueprints, we know that we can make the default dashboards more useful than that. We will need your input to optimize them to display the most relevant information from the get-go.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our current default dashboard gives our users two choices: Either list every entity the system is connected to or start from scratch. With dashboard blueprints, we know that we can make the default dashboards more useful than that. We will need your input to optimize them to display the most relevant information from the get-go.
```

Our [research has shown](https://community.home-assistant.io/t/poll-what-do-you-use-your-voice-assistant-for-what-do-you-expect-it-to-do-multiple-selections/693669) users are most interested in us improving out-of-the-box capabilities of Assist, for instance, timers, reminders, and music controls.

#### Current priority 2: Make Assist easier to start with

At the moment, there are several things you need to install or configure to get started with voice. We want to make it easier to set up and onboard. There are already some good hardware choices to start using voice, but we’re exploring building our voice satellite hardware to create a more plug-and-play experience.

### Automations

Automation is one of the cornerstones of the home automation industry. The ability to automate your home so that it does what you expect when you expect it is both fascinating and extremely rewarding for users, regardless of their experience level. Today, the automation engine of Home Assistant is one of the most powerful in the market. However, this comes at a cost: It is not the simplest to approach.

#### Current priority 1: Make automations easier to organize

> As users grow their smart home, they will create more automation. Our automations are listed in a large table, and it can get easily disorganized as it grows. Earlier this year we did a lot to improve the organization of automations, including [labels, filters, and categories](https://youtu.be/g3Xo0ArcMaY?si=OrqvNDASLFvyKhEs), which in return not only made automations easier to organize, but also almost every table in the Home Assistant settings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As users grow their smart home, they will create more automation. Our automations are listed in a large table and can get easily disorganized as it grows. Earlier this year, we did a lot to improve the organization of automations, including [labels, filters, and categories](https://youtu.be/g3Xo0ArcMaY?si=OrqvNDASLFvyKhEs), which in return not only made automations easier to organize, but also almost every table in the Home Assistant settings.
```

#### Current priority 2: Make automations easier to create

> While we have been making headway earlier this year making automations easier to create. We need a more comprehensive effort with a full product development cycle of research, discovery, ideation, and validation to confidently make design and implementation decisions. As of now, many seemingly simple automations can be too complex to create and debug, and there is a lot of room for improvement. We foresee that when this opportunity is done, admins and housemates will be able to create automations with ease.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
While we made headway earlier this year in making automations easier to create, we need a more comprehensive effort with a full product development cycle of research, discovery, ideation, and validation to confidently make design and implementation decisions. As of now, many seemingly simple automations can be too complex to create and debug, and there is a lot of room for improvement. We foresee that when this opportunity is done, admins and housemates can easily create automations.
```

* * *

### Research

To make informed product decisions, we need to base our work on solid research. Therefore, we have been building out our research capabilities, both in terms of user research and technology research.

#### User research

> In order for all of us in our community to make the right product, design, and engineering decisions, we need all of us to have a clear picture of who our users really are. Last year, we had done some initial research, mostly focused on dashboard. This year, we want to get the full picture with complete foundational research of our users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order for all of us in our community to make the right product, design, and engineering decisions, we need all of us to have a clear picture of who our users really are. Last year, we did some initial research, mostly focused on dashboards. This year, we want to get the full picture with complete foundational research of our users.
```

Secondly, of the three Open Home values, privacy, choice, and sustainability, while we have a pretty solid understanding of choice and some understanding of sustainability, the idea of privacy can benefit from more clarity. We want a better understanding of what privacy really means to a home and its residents.

#### Technology research (R&D)

Yes, large language models (LLMs) are a hot trend, but that’s not why we’re exploring them. We know there are very interesting problems they can solve in the home, and with the amount of data our users collect in their history, we believe that there is much power underneath Home Assistant yet to be unearthed and it is uniquely positioned to be the smart home platform for AI. [Our AI vision](/blog/2024/06/07/ai-agents-for-the-smart-home/) lays down the foundation for what we want to do with AI and LLMs next.

> In order to help AI make better decisions, we need a better understanding of the context of what each device actually is. To do so, we need to refine our information architecture. For instance, we recently rolled out floors helping Home Assistant better understand your house. This is no small task but could be vital in implementing better voice or even AI in the home.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to help AI make better decisions, we need a better understanding of the context of what each device actually is. To do so, we need to refine our information architecture. For instance, we recently rolled out floors helping Home Assistant better understand your house. This is no small task, but it could be vital in implementing better voice or even AI in the home.
```

* * *

## Home Assistant Cloud: “Peace of Mind”

[Home Assistant Cloud](https://www.nabucasa.com/), powered by our commercial partner Nabu Casa brings, to the many, the hard-to-reach features of Home Assistant usually reserved for power users with expensive hardware at home, with no compromise on privacy.

Currently, Home Assistant Cloud provides the simplest and safest way to access your Home Assistant instance anywhere in the world and connect to third-party cloud-connected voice assistants, like Google’s and Alexa’s offerings. Our newest ability added to Cloud is the ability to offload the resource-intensive tasks of speech-to-text and text-to-speech. This allows our users to have power-efficient hardware at home, like the Home Assistant Green, which uses three watts and performs tasks usually reserved for hundred-watt home servers.

> For the next phase of Home Assistant Cloud, we want to continue to build features that adhere to our mission as stated above. The theme for the upcoming initiatives revolve around providing peace of mind for our users:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the next phase of Home Assistant Cloud, we want to continue to build features that adhere to our mission, as stated above. The theme for the upcoming initiatives revolve around providing peace of mind for our users:
```

#### Current priority: Hardening security

We want to harden our security, providing more control for remote access and Two-Factor Authentication (2FA) for your Nabu Casa account.

#### Next priority: Encrypted cloud backup

> This would allow users to have a more resilient installation of Home Assistant, so if your instance completely breaks down it can be restored from the cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This would allow users to have a more resilient installation of Home Assistant, so if your instance completely breaks down, it can be restored from the cloud.
```

#### Later priority: Cloud monitoring

If your Home Assistant instance goes down, we’ll be able to detect it and send an email notification. This will allow you to monitor your downtime, and hopefully avoid more of it in the future, keeping your whole family happy 😁.

If you are currently a subscriber of Home Assistant Cloud, thank you again for your generous support of our project, and please let us know what we can do to improve our service. If you haven’t subscribed yet, you can check it out [here](https://nabucasa.com)!

* * *

## Open standards: “Certified Quality”

We believe open standards are critical to providing choices for the future of the open home, and that is why we have put a lot of work into supporting current and emerging standards. They provide a way for manufacturers to provide broad compatibility, but they also provide peace of mind for users by ensuring the longevity of the devices.

All our teams are currently working very hard on certification - we want to make sure all our open standards implementations are up to industry standards.

### Zigbee

> For Zigbee, we already have a well-established hardware solution, via our [Home Assistant Connect ZBT-1](https://www.home-assistant.io/skyconnect/) (formerly known as the SkyConnect). We are also continuing to contribute code and refine ZHA and Zigpy, the software powering Zigbee in Home Assistant.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Zigbee, we already have a well-established hardware solution via our [Home Assistant Connect ZBT-1](/skyconnect/) (formerly known as the SkyConnect). We continue contributing code and refining ZHA and Zigpy, the software powering Zigbee in Home Assistant.
```

### Matter

#### Current priority 1: Certification

Matter is served via our Matter Server, which is evolving with the standard, and we will continue to the first home automation system that adopts the latest Matter standards. Our Home Assistant Connect ZBT-1 hardware also supports this standard via its support of Matter over Thread.

#### Current priority 2: Device Commissioning

There are still some big challenges that need to be addressed like device commissioning, which is currently overly complex, and we’re working with the industry to improve this.

### Z-Wave

#### Current priority: Certification

This year, we made several big announcements with our support of Z-Wave. We joined the Z-Wave Alliance in February this year and have been [working to improve our Z-Wave JS software](/blog/2024/05/08/zwave-is-not-dead).

#### Next priority: Home Assistant Connect Hardware for Z-Wave

To build the most seamless user experience for this protocol, we’re building our own Z-Wave stick to connect devices to Home Assistant. This new Z-Wave stick will join our Home Assistant Connect family of products.

* * *

## What’s next?

> Our roadmap is an open call for contributions in the product areas we are focusing on. It outlines what the core maintainers of the Home Assistant project are going to work on in the near future. This is a tool for our contributors and us, the maintainers of the project, to plan ahead for our collective future. As this is a living document, we will revisit and update our roadmap every half year.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our roadmap is an open call for contributions in the product areas we are focusing on. It outlines what the core maintainers of the Home Assistant project will work on in the near future. This is a tool for our contributors and us, the project maintainers, to plan ahead for our collective future. As this is a living document, we will revisit and update our roadmap every half year.
```
